FAQ's List
GENERAL :
How can I avail internet reservation facility through credit cards?
Why are PNR and reservation availability queries not available after certain timings at night?
Why do I get "Network connectivity failures", while doing PNR and seat availability queries?
How can I avail the enquiries, through SMS on mobile phones?
Why do sometimes the fonts, colors schemes and java scripts behave differently in some browsers?
Where can I get the latest arrival and departure timings of trains, when they get delayed?
Where can I lodge complaint against any type of grievances in the Trains/Platforms/officials, on this web site and how do I report the problems on this web site and give suggestions?
 
NEED SPECIFIC :
How do I use "Trains between important stations"? 
Railway Rules / Passenger Services
Journey planning
Knowing station codes 
Knowing train numbers
 
PLEASE NOTE :
The site maintenance activities takes place from 2330hrs to 0030 hrs (Indian Standard Time) daily. During this period information will not be available. Also, note that since the system is shut for maintenance activities no status changes take place during this period.
 
INTERNET RESERVATION FACILITY THROUGH CREDIT CARDS :
Recently internet reservation facility has started on Indian Railways. The web site http://www.irctc.co.in is operational, wherein you can get the railway reservation done through Credit Cards.For more on Reservation through credit cards click here  Internet Reservation
Top
ONLINE PNR AND SEAT AVAILABILITY QUERY TIMINGS :
The online PNR and seat availability queries are fetched from the computerized reservation applications.These online reservation applications are shut down daily around 2330 hrs to 0030 hrs IST.
Due to the dynamic changes taking place in the PNR status updation and the availability positions, these two types of queries have to be fetched from the online reservation applications, hence the non- availability of them after certain timings. The sheer size of these databases does not allow them to be copied over network lines.Please note that the web site is functional 24 hrs. a day and other queries (trains between any two stations, fare queries, etc.) are functional throughout the day.
Top
NETWORK CONNECTIVITY FAILURES :
Please read the above paragraph. As mentioned in it, for the PNR and seat availability queries, the result is fetched from the computerized reservation applications at the five sites, viz. New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Secunderabad. If there is any network link failure, or if the network lines are very congested, then this error message is displayed. It might so happen, that you are getting seat availability and PNR information for say trains originating from New Delhi and Kolkata, but not for trains originating from Mumbai.
Top
SMS SERVICES :
Now all the enquiries offered on the web site www.indianrail.gov.in are available on your mobile phone through SMS facility. For more information on the mobile service providers and the key words to be used on the mobile, please click here, SMS help .
Please note that we are giving the backend service only for the SMS queries. For more information and help on key words and SMS facility, kindly contact the mobile service provider according to the table.
Top
PREFERRED BROWSER :
This web site is best viewed with Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0 and above. It might not give desired results with other browsers. All the pages, color schemes and scripts have been tested for IE 6.0 and above.
The latest arrival and departure timings of delayed trains, alongwith diverted routes etc. will be made available shortly on this web site only.
Top
LATEST ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TIMINGS :
The latest arrival and departure timings of delayed trains, alongwith diverted routes etc. will be made available shortly on this web site only.
Top
GRIEVANCES AGAINST AMENITIES IN TRAINS/ PLATFORMS /OFFICIALS. SUGGESTIONS FOR WEB SITE :
The complaint software is presently under development. We try our best to forward your grievances to the concerned department. However please note that this is not always possible. Please note that all your complaints and suggestions for the improvement of the web site http://www.indianrail.gov.in  can be put on the Feedback & suggestions page.
Please note that, in case of any problems, give the query type (hyper link), the inputs which you gave, and the exact error message generated by this web site. All this will help us in solving the problems quickly. In the absence of such inputs, we can't solve the problems.
Top
TRAINS BETWEEN IMPORTANT STATIONS :
On activating this option you will be prompted to select the source and destination from the drop down list box. Also select the appropriate class of travel and click get it. This option displays a list of all trains that ply between the mentioned station pair along with the classes, arrival and departure time and days of run. After selecting a train and corresponding classes of relevance it is possible to find the availability, fare and route of the train using the available buttons.
NOTE : If station you are looking for is not in the important trains list, please use the "station_code" enquiry, to get the station codes and then use the query for Trains between source and destinayion.
( TIP : This is the most exhustive option and is of great help in planning a journey)
Top
PASSENGER STATUS :
This option displays the current status of a booked ticket. Please note that in case there is any change in the staus after chart preparation it will not be available through the system and can be known only at the station, which in effect means that the status indicated by the system after the chart preparation will not be further updated.
Top
CONCESSIONAL FARE ENQUIRY FOR A TRAIN :
This option displays a complete breakup of the fare for valid classes of a train and a pair of stations. Note that valid classes depends on the pair of stations and the entered concession code. It is also possible to view the fare for different age groups. Availability for this train can also be obtained from here using the available buttons.
Top
STATION CODES :
This option helps you to obtain the list of station codes of those stations where the station name matches the input sub-string. This offers the option of searching for stations names which start with the input string or which some where in their name contain the input string. You may see the output sorted on either the station name or code.
Top
TRAIN SCHEDULE :
On activating this option you will be prompted to enter few characters of either the Train name or Train number of the train you are interested in. On submitting the query a list of all trains that match the entered characters will be displayed along with their respective source and destination details.
Now from here you may select the train of your requirement and then click on the button labled as Get Route. This will display the complete route of the selected train along with arrival & departure details.
Top
PASSENGER SERVICE INFORMATION :
This has a list of : 
Reservation rules
Refund rules
Break journey rules
Name change rules
Tatkal trains
Special Trains
Season tickets
Class codes
Quota codes
Booking locations
Travel agents
Luggage Rules
International tourists
Royal Orient Train
Shivalik Deluxe Train
Shivalik Palace Train
Shivalik Queen Train
Top
JOURNEY PLANNING :
Step 1:
    Using the menu option 'Trains / Berths / Full Fare' get the list of train numbers. 
Note : If you know the station code you can also directly enter the codes after clicking on 'Know Station Codes ! Click here', Otherwise just enter 2-3 characters of the station names you are interested in (in the source and destination station fields). This will prompt you with valid station codes as per the input strings out which you can select stations that satisfy your requirement.

Step 2:
    Click on 'Get It'.

Step 3:
    If there are no trains between the specified pair of stations you will be prompted with an error.

Step 4:
    After you see the list of trains, enter the desired date of journey and select the train of your choice using the radio button next to the desired train number. Also select the desires class. You are now in the capacity to get the Availability, Fare, Route Information for the selected train using the buttons provided both on the top and bottom of the table.
